Previously on reign:
Every time I turn around,
he's beside you.
I want a good life
and a husband to share it with.
I wonder if you might entertain
A chance to be a queen.
I can't keep living like this.
Be my wife.
Too much
Has passed between us.
And now you
want to go to condé.
I forbid it.
Mary: Come to
Scotland with me.
I want you.
Antoine:
I've had a message from England.
Queen elizabeth wants you.
That'll be the count
and countess du grace.
Your majesty, I present you
my daughter, lady anna.
Two places, fifth table
from the king's.
Kenna, I'm impressed.
You've really
Got this all in hand,
don't you?
Mm, I'm surprised catherine
trusted you to plan the banquet.
The dauphin vintage
tasting is not exactly
A coronation,
but still,
The chance to taste wine
bottled on the day of the king's
Birth is bringing nobles
from all over France.
Well, actually,
it was mary's decision,
Although
I'm sure catherine
Would have happily
given me the opportunity
Just to see me fail.
Oh, dear.
I recognize
Count du grace, but
That's not
the countess.
Do you think he
brought his mistress?
No, he's hoping
he brought the king's mistress.
I don't understand.
I should have warned you.
I suppose I expected
You'd instinctively
grasp every nuance
Of the sordid tradition
of a king's mistress.
But the king doesn't
have a mistress.
Catherine:
Not yet. That's why
these lords are bringing
Their ready young daughters.
They're hoping that
Francis will
choose one of them
To take to his bed.
And what makes
Them think that francis
wants a mistress?
Our estrangement
has become obvious.
Separate chambers...
Lola:
Well, plenty of kings
and queens keep
Separate chambers.
You did.
Just when I was
starting to like you.
Kenna:
I'll have to completely
rearrange the seating.
I won't have any of these
pert little opportunists
Sitting anywhere
near mary.
Don't worry about it, kenna.
Your outrage is touching,
But I can hardly take offense
when I'm the one who suggested
We live separate lives.
You don't want that...
I suppose in their minds,
it's a simple trade.
One daughter will be bedded
by a man she'll never marry,
But if that man is the king and
the family now has his favor,
It's worth it.
Oh, yes.
It worked for the boleyn girls.
Well, for their father, anyway.
Well, they won't get anywhere.
Not with francis.
He loves mary.
Things change, lola.
If francis
and mary are finished,
There's an opportunity
at the king's side
For some lucky girl here.
♪ time alone with
the pounding of your heart ♪
♪ as it starts to heal
♪ you'll find a better mirror
in another... ♪
I need to speak with you.
There are plans to settle.
Scotland.
This is not the place.
Hardly.
Shouldn't there
be an empty room
In the wine cellar now,
Devoid of a certain vintage?
I'll meet you there in an hour.
I have some good news
for you, little brother.
The english queen's envoy
is in the village,
And I've arranged a meeting.
If you can charm him
As well as you've
charmed the scots queen,
You may end up with
an english crown on your head.
If I have a head left
to put it on.
You take too many risks,
antoine.
What if francis finds out
you have me courting elizabeth?
Have they found out what
we've been up to so far?
He knows his mother
and father were poisoned,
And barely missed learning
you were behind it.
And yet here we are,
Only two or three
chess moves away
From becoming
a pair of bourbon kings.
Exactly as we were destined
By blood.
Your majesty.
Majesty.
Please allow
me to present
My niece, lady amelie.
Majesty.
Welcome to court, lady amelie.
She's my sister's child,
But my pride
Swells for her as
if she were my own.
Brilliant mind,
And a lover of all the...
Sensual arts.
Enjoys poetry,
Plays the lute
like an angel,
And has a gift
For embroidery.
As a matter of
fact, amelie,
Why don't you
take a look
At the annunciation tapestry
in the map room?
Stunning work.
There is no scrap
of courtly advantage
You won't stoop to grasp,
is there?
Even offering
your own niece as a mistress.
Don't we all have a duty
to grasp what life offers?
But as a king may
not stoop to grasp,
His subjects must offer.
Well, as long as
you're offering things,
Kindly do me the favor
of making it known
I am not seeking a mistress.
Multiple lords have brought both
wives and daughters,
So we'll need
two extra tables.
We'll also need extra cake,
extra everything.
This is the new seating chart.
King antoine, you're still here.
I'd heard...
That I was scheduled
to return to navarre?
So you're keeping tabs on me.
Well, I take hope from that.
Don't.
I couldn't leave,
not without your answer.
My answer is no.
Well, that's not the answer
I was hoping to leave with.
So here I'll stay.
I don't trust you,
and I don't believe you.
Why?
Because your suggestion
that we should wed
As soon as your ailing wife dies
is so rash.
It is rash,
And yet here I am.
I can't seem
to take back my words,
And I can't seem to leave you.
Antoine, I'm married.
Well, if that's
your only objection,
Then you've given me
even more hope.
Please, come to me.
So we can talk,
Just talk.
I'm so sorry, mary.
If I'd known the kind of guests
the event would draw,
I would have canceled
the tasting.
It's not your fault.
Rumors of our distance
is spreading.
Timing of the event is terrible.
I don't think time would
change much for us, francis.
Yes, well, that is where
you and I disagree.
Not the only place.
Condé.
Does it not strike you
as unfair that I am
Forbidden to live my life
the way I desire...
Don't speak to me
Of your desire for another.
My desire to put
The horrors of my past
behind me.
I feel as though I'm drowning.
Mary.
I need to breathe again.
To be happy.
An affair with condé
endangers your life
And our countries' alliance.
Is that all there is to it?
No jealousy or regret?
Because you think that
if you simply bide your time,
I will come back to you?
I do think that.
I love you,
And I would do anything
To undo the choices I made
Now that I know their outcome,
but I can't.
Nor can I alter the fact
that we live in a world
Where a queen's infidelity
Is considered an act of treason,
Because any child you had
must be presumed illegitimate.
The nobles would want your head
and demand condé's,
And I can't promise I could
protect either of you.
And in condé's case,
I'm not sure I'd want to.
I can't do this anymore.
Do what?
Hear the truth of our lives?
I'm sorry, but I am determined
To stop you
from making a decision
That could cost you your head.
And there is no more
To say on the subject.
(fast tempo acoustic
intro playing)
♪ they all need something
♪ to hold on to,
they all mean well ♪
♪ you could never
feel my story ♪
♪ it's all you know... Oh!
♪
Are those the things
antoine gave you?
No, as a matter of fact,
I sent those back.
If you want
to castigate me...
Don't worry, I'm not
seeking an argument. I...
I thought we might talk.
Must we?
You had plenty to say
the other night. What's changed?
I just don't really see
the point.
If things have got that bad,
how can there not be
A point in talking?
Bash, I'm sorry,
But I have a banquet to manage.
I'm sorry I took so long.
I kept having
to change directions.
I ran into servants
at every step of the way.
Have you thought
about how you'll achieve this?
I have hired an agent
to gather intelligence for me.
I need to know
which harbors are safe to land,
Which nobles I can trust,
Which areas
haven't been infiltrated
By elizabeth's troops.
I think I can help with that.
I've arranged a trade delegation
from my principality.
It'll book passage to scotland
for enough men to protect
A sizable portion of gold
or a queen
Traveling under
a false name.
Louis, that's very generous,
But you'd be
opening yourself up
To retribution from your king.
My king can't hurt me
If he is in France
and I'm in scotland.
Then you've made up your mind?
You want to come with me?
There is no place I'd rather be.
I don't know what to say.
I'm sorry.
I can't.
It's not yet safe for that.
But for the first time
in so long,
I think the time is close.
(sighs)
Fetch me something.
I don't care what it is,
but fetch it from far away.
I have to ask you something.
You're a king.
You could have anyone.
So honestly, antoine, why me?
It is not easy for most men
to love you.
You lack shame, kenna,
Which makes you bold.
It makes you seem open
to the pleasures
That men want to give to you,
But later it makes
you seem open to rivals.
This makes men jealous.
But not me.
I have no use for shame,
And I do not fear rivals.
These are all lovely words,
antoine,
But they don't change the fact
That you have a wife,
and I a husband.
You have a husband
who no longer trusts you.
I think if you ask him
for an annulment,
He will grant you one.
I have a dying wife
Who wants me to find
A mother for our children.
Are you sure you want a mother
For your children
who has no shame?
(chuckles)
Well, I believe shame
is the worst thing
A parent can teach
their children.
I want my children
to be joyful
And frank and adventurous.
Like you.
But if parenthood
Is something
that doesn't interest you...
No.
It does, actually.
More so
than it does
My husband.
Kenna, my last marriage
was for duty and politics.
I want my next marriage
to be about something more.
I can't.
I'm so sorry,
I have to go.
It's lovely and grand and all,
but it won't do.
I need to show
my meat and potatoes.
First of all,
Try not to refer to your body
as "meat and potatoes."
The men you are
trying to attract
Are looking for
something more...
Refined.
Pay attention, gigi.
Greer knows what
she's talking about.
Fine. I'm wearing
Your nun's habit.
What's next?
(knocking at door)
Excuse me.
I'm looking
for...
Greer.
(laughing)
Leith:
Is this a bad time?
No! Uh... Yes! I...
Uh... My a-attending ladies
And I were just...
(laughing)
...Trying on dresses.
Attending ladies?
Shh!
I'll-I'll meet you
Downstairs, shall I?
Leith:
All right.
(clears throat)
Later.
I'll tell you everything later.
(laughing)
Leith:
I, uh,
I was deployed at languedoc.
That's when I
heard the news.
I checked for you at the
castle, and that's when
I learned that you'd moved here,
to town.
Patron: Bugger off!
(indistinct argument)
I'm not going anywhere
until you...
Pay no attention. The customers
like to complain the beer's
Been watered down, but
as soon as they drink
Enough of it, they settle.
What?
I'm not used to hearing you...
Speak like that.
No, I meant what news?
Lord castleroy.
I'm afraid
he's in prison.
Convicted of treason
for funding the castle attack.
Wealthy friends
commuted
His death sentence,
so he'll live,
But...
He'll never be free again.
My god.
Not ever.
Poor aloysius.
I worried
When I hadn't heard
from him, but...
That's it, then.
Any chance we had
of a future...
I'm so sorry.
Greer, how are you faring?
I'm all right.
Um, with-without your husband
Or your...
Your position with mary?
It's been...
An adjustment, of course,
But I'm finding my way.
How?
Thank you for taking the time
To bring me news
of my husband.
I'm sure
it can't have been easy.
Good day
to you, leith.
And good luck,
Now that you're back.
Brother!
(sighs)
you don't look to be
dressed for the tasting.
I was about to take a ride.
It will have to
be a short ride
If you don't want
to miss your meeting
With the english queen's envoy.
He's anxious to meet
her new bourbon suitor.
You'll have to reset the
meeting; I can't do it tonight.
I went to considerable lengths
to get us this meeting.
You'll have to do better
than "not tonight."
I have my own principality,
antoine,
With needs that concern me
and not you.
It concerns me
if your principality might
Get in the way of our family
obtaining a kingdom.
You can't have a new kingdom
without me as king.
I'd bear that in mind.
Amelie:
I'm looking forward
To tasting your vintage,
majesty.
Greatly.
Lady amelie, I'm sorry to say
I will have to miss
tonight's festivities.
But I do hope you enjoy them.
Are you sure?
Will you reconsider?
Mary, I was just explaining
to lord stephan's niece
That I can't make it
to the tasting tonight.
Because
you and I
Are set to review the plans
for that new reliquary.
Mary:
Oh.
Uh, those plans aren't ready
For us to review
just yet.
And in any case,
I will be spending the night
At the abbey of saint seraphina.
So your night
is free.
Completely free,
as I'm sure you are aware.
Are you certain, mary?
I am.
It's a long ride
to the warming lodge
Where we're meeting my agent.
Are you ready?
Is there an explanation
for your absence?
Yes.
There's nothing holding us back.
I need to choose
a safe harbor to land
In a region firmly
under catholic control,
So that as I move my
small fighting force
Across the countryside,
it only grows.
By the time I reach my enemies,
I will have an army at my back.
Can you find
this information for me?
I can, majesty, given time.
How much time?
I'll need at least a week.
Probably two, to be safe.
Mary:
Then hurry, ridley.
And thank you.
Louis, it's happening.
It's finally happening.
Do you know
what this means?
I can move forward.
We can move forward.
I can unify
my country,
And we can have
a place to be together.
I want to
celebrate, too.
When it's safe. We should
get you back to the castle.
But why?
No one knows we're here.
And we are alone.
Mary, we needn't rush anything.
You have never rushed me.
And you have always
been by my side.
I feel safe with you.
Lords and ladies,
we are gathered tonight
To commemorate
a most special vintage,
Bottled to commemorate the birth
Of a most special dauphin.
Please, join me in toasting
king francis.
Group:
Cheers!
(various toasts continue)
Sample the vintage
and you'll note the many ways
It is like our fine, young king.
It is elegant,
understated, yet bold...
Catherine:
All these young ladies
Hoping to catch
the king's eye...
Why not you?
Is that what you were
hinting at earlier?
To answer your question:
Because I am mary's lady.
Mm-hmm.
And friend.
Also, you despise me.
Why are you looking
at me that way?
Because you're the mother
of my son's child.
You have given francis
something that mary hasn't
And probably
never will.
And he likes you.
You could make
him very happy.
What more could a mother want
for her son?
Kenna.
Bash.
I wasn't expecting
to see you here.
I've decided it's far past time
That I danced
with my wife.
I'm sorry.
Bash, you don't need to...
Yes, I do.
If you think our marriage
is so far gone
It's not even worth discussing,
I must have done
something wrong.
I know I work too hard.
When I am around,
I'm either distracted
or in a bad mood.
But I don't want that
to be our relationship.
So I had a thought.
Let's go to paris.
Paris?
Why?
You love paris.
But you hate it.
I will love it for you.
I used to know how
to make you happy.
I want to be that husband again.
What do you think?
I don't know what to say.
Francis...
Have you
seen mary?
She told me that she planned
on spending the evening
At the abbey of saint seraphina.
How we used to dance
at these parties,
And now she can barely stand
to be near me.
Or in the same castle,
apparently.
I'm sorry to interrupt,
But my uncle sent me
to give you a private message.
Something he's learned
of one of the lords.
Of course.
Excuse me.
What's this message
That's so important?
I'm sorry, majesty.
There is no message.
All that wine,
And the look of you, I just...
Is this your choosing
or has someone pressured you?
Your uncle,
Lord narcisse,
for example?
He encouraged it.
Ah.
But when I saw you...
The choice is mine.
Is that what he told you to say?
Lady amelie,
I offer you nothing.
If I were you,
I would leave.
But you're not me, are you?
You're not a girl
who's spent all her life
Watching a handsome young prince
Become a king.
You may not offer me anything,
But you wouldn't be taking
anything from me, either.
I've lain with
other boys,
But never a man like you.
And as to
your marriage...
I've learned to live
With wanting things
I can't have.
Oh, that's a lesson
I'd like to learn.
♪ oh
♪ don't leave me here alone
♪ don't tell me
how we've grown ♪
♪ for having loved
a little while ♪
♪ oh
♪ I don't want to be alone
♪ I want to find a home
♪ and I want to share it
with you ♪
I'm all right.
♪ hello, my own heart
♪ it's been so long
♪ since I've given you away
♪ and every day
I add another stone ♪
♪ to the walls
I built around you... ♪
Louis,
I think...
It's enough for now.
For now.
Did I fall asleep?
That was...
You are talented.
You were so
lost in it.
Was that what
you wanted?
To lose yourself?
You are quite lovely,
lady amelie.
Thank you.
I have to go.
Will you be all right?
(gasps)
(giggles)
What was that for?
Fun. What of it?
(gasps)
That's enough of that.
We've been seen.
Who was that woman?
She saw us together.
She could tell anyone--
it would mean our heads.
She won't.
Go back
to the castle.
Wait for me there.
Conde:
Hyah! Hyah! Hyah!
Hyah!
Conde:
Who are you?
What is your business
in these parts?
Antoine.
You can't honestly
be surprised
That I protected
my own interests.
After you balked at your meeting
with elizabeth's envoy,
I had you followed.
You may go.
And don't worry--
She's loyal to me.
Your secret's safe.
For now.
Is that a threat?
You're jeopardizing your future,
our family's future.
You must end your affair
with mary.
I will not.
You will do
what your family needs.
Or I will tell francis
all that I know
Of you and his wife.
He will cut off
my head, antoine.
Who will get you
elizabeth then?
Well, you won't help me now.
Why should I think you'll help
me if I let you live?
And remember, if the nobles
learn of the affair,
The law demands
mary's head, too.
Will you risk mary's life
for a few nights of passion?
You have two hours.
End it with mary,
or I will end both of you.
Well, you couldn't be with him
when he was a kitchen servant
And you were
a queen's lady.
That I understand.
But now it's different.
He's an officer
of the kingsguard, and...
I'm married.
Now and forever.
It's wrong and
scandalous.
And you would be ruined.
Aren't you already?
It's not the worst thing
in the world, is it?
Is that your man now?
Yes, but he's
not my man.
You judge apples
by color.
Also firmness.
Like this one.
Leith.
What...
What are you doing here?
I wanted to offer
my friendship.
If you should ever need
help with anything--
Companionship,
rent money,
Produce selection...
Anything.
I know you're cut
off from the castle,
But you're never
cut off from me.
That's truly kind.
I'm sorry I dismissed you
so abruptly before.
I guess I was overcome
by pride-- foolish pride.
Hands off, pig!
I don't owe you
no poke or no tug.
Man:
Shut up!
You heard the girl--
take your hands off her.
Don't make me waste
another perfectly good apple.
They're very expensive.
Leave us alone!
Be a gentleman, sir,
And let go of her.
I said it's none
of your business.
Actually, it is
my business.
Gigi is my neighbor,
my friend and...
You mean she's
one of your whores?
I've seen you pocket
your take from them.
You tell your whore
she ain't done her job,
And I want what's mine,
one way or another.
You'll step away from gigi now,
or everyone here will understand
Why the working girls
call you "old shrivel."
Would you like that, sir?
(laughter)
Who needs you?
Out of my way.
You all right?
Thank you.
You showed him, greer.
Did you find the woman?
She led me straight to
the man she works for.
The man who sent
her to follow me.
Follow you?
Who was it? Francis?
My brother.
Antoine knows about us?
About scotland?
Nothing of
scotland, not yet.
Why would he have
you followed?
Does he suspect you
of something?
Is-is there some issue
between the two of you?
My brother
seeks advantage
Whenever he can.
And now he has it.
Mary, we need
to reconsider our plans--
Scotland, all of it.
Why?
Antoine said that
if we don't break it off,
He'll tell francis
what he knows.
It would cost you your head.
Why would he risk your
life to keep us apart?
I... I don't know.
Then we must face reality.
We cannot be together,
not now.
And as much as I want you,
I will not risk your
life to be with you.
I'm so sorry.
I would have given anything
to go on the way we were.
To join you in scotland.
I know.
Forgive me,
but you look ghastly.
Yes, well, I've felt better.
When I've had
more sleep.
I saw you leave
the tasting last night
With narcisse's niece.
She came back hours later,
all smiles.
And you never
came back at all.
Lola, don't.
Don't give up on her, francis.
I know mary's
pushing you away,
But given
what she's been through,
It's what she needs to do.
All she needs is time.
You, you sound
exactly like me,
And like me,
you're wrong.
Mary doesn't
want time.
What she wants
is condé.
No.
No, she admitted it, lola.
She wants to be with him.
I forbade it, of course. Can you
imagine what that was like?
Telling my wife, after
all she's been through,
That no, she cannot
have the one thing
She believes will
make her happy.
An affair that would
get her killed.
Look, I know this must hurt.
But if you can't dissuade mary
from this course,
Then you owe it to her to do
what you can to protect her.
As a king,
you can squash rumors,
And if that fails,
You can shield them
from the severest punishment.
It is a betrayal.
Do you think mary turns
to condé to hurt you?
She loves you.
She does what she does because
she sees no other option.
She's desperate to get past
her pain, to heal.
So I should stand by, a king,
And grant my wife free rein
to be with another man?
I don't know, francis.
It depends on how much
you love her.
And how much
you want her to heal.
And to heal yourself.
Majesty, your queen has arrived,
and she bids that you join her.
Jeanne?
She's here? Since when?
She arrived
a few minutes ago.
(jeanne gasps)
antoine: Hurry.
My wife needs a chair.
Woman: Your grace.
Woman 2: My lady.
Woman 3: Some water!
Man: Water!
Antoine: Are you all
right, my darling?
Give me one moment.
Kenna, please stop.
Listen.
Whatever you think you may know,
My wife is pregnant, yes,
But she's still
very ill.
That's why I sent for her--
I thought
She might want to meet you...
Enough!
You didn't invite her. I did.
I had to see this illness
of hers for myself.
So you were testing my story.
Bash was right.
Your only intention
was vengeance
On him for killing your brother.
You never intended to marry
me, not for one moment.
Just to bed me,
To punish my husband.
You're right.
It began that way,
But I do want you.
As what?!
I thought I'd convince you
to be my mistress.
Because I'd be ruined.
And... My husband humiliated.
Well, I can't deny hoping
for that last bit.
You judge me, but you don't
know who these people are.
They've committed
atrocities.
Murder by the thousands.
They are rulers.
This is the price they pay.
You can still
leave with me.
I will love you
and make you happy.
I am happy!
And I love my husband.
If my wife had arrived
gravely ill,
You'd have left your husband.
Your marriage is
already over.
You just don't know it yet.
Francis, we
need to talk.
I know.
I was going to come and find you
Once I could bring myself
to do it.
I assume you're here
about condé.
In a way, yes.
He is yours.
You're free...
To do as you please.
I don't understand.
What's changed?
I cannot bear
to see you in pain.
And I will not be the cause
of any more suffering.
Even if your pain results
from being kept
From another man
whom you desire.
Francis...
It's best
that you don't interrupt.
This is not easy or pleasant,
And I'm not even sure
if it's wise.
But if you sincerely believe
That your best path
to healing is at his side,
I will not stand in your way.
You may remain at court
with condé with my protection.
Don't make me regret this, mary.
For god's sake, be careful.
Just don't be seen with him.
I will protect you
as best I can,
Silence any rumors I'm able to.
But if there is ever proof...
If we are caught
together, you mean.
If there is a child.
I'm sorry we've come to this.
Mm.
Well, it's as you
suggested months ago.
Let us hope that this allows
One of us to be happy at least.
Ask for baron eduard at the
ball, and tell him you're
Seeking his training in how to
become more skillful courtesans.
That should flatter his ego.
Teach us to be better whores?
I like it.
Wish us luck.
My, how the tables
have turned.
Now it's you who fears
being seen with me.
Greer, you all but announced
at that market that you are...
A madam?
I am, leith.
You must separate yourself
From this trade,
from these women.
I'm trapped
In a marriage to a man
in prison for treason.
I'm disgraced in the
eyes of the crown
And most of this village.
I have nothing
to offer any man.
And little enough
to offer a friend.
Except for the women
I'm helping.
I can't give that up.
Not even for your approval.
It's a hard enough life without
seeing your disappointment.
So I'll make it
easier on both of us
And go elsewhere.
♪ I breathe in slow
to compose myself ♪
♪ but the bleeding heart
I left on the shelf ♪
♪ starts beating now,
beating half to death ♪
♪ scared of the hole
in my head ♪
♪ that's been making me sweat
♪ but it turns out
♪ that the world will turn
♪ and we'll grow, we'll learn
♪ how to be...
(door opens)
I don't care what you do.
I don't care what they say.
I want you.
♪ I don't want to look down
♪ I don't want us to break up
in the cloud... ♪
Don't.
Don't stop.
♪ to stay with you now
♪ and this here now
♪ it's where we first had
♪ you and me
♪ let's be complete.
I got word
that you were leaving.
I'm finding this french
court extremely trying.
I'd like to leave with at
least one prospect intact.
Please tell me you've
ended things with mary,
So I don't have to go back
Inside and tell francis
What you've been
doing with his wife.
You told me
that blood, family...
Is everything,
and I am your brother.
I don't think
you'd risk my death.
It is you who is taking
the risk, and for what?
Love.
Mary will never leave francis.
She has a duty not only to
France, but to scotland.
I don't need a lecture
on politics, antoine...
Then on love.
For theirs was
rumored to be great.
If mary can turn away from
her husband after being married
For less than a year,
then she is a fickle
And foolish woman.
That may have been your one
chance to harm a king and live.
When this is over,
You will be running
for your life.
Having turned down the queen of
England, who will despise you,
And been cast aside
by the queen of scots,
Who will want you gone.
Your parting will
happen slowly,
By the way, as mary knows
you've risked your life.
Oh, my guess is that she'll
inch back to her husband,
Feeling guilty for
costing you your head.
Because even mary knows
That francis will find a
way to kill you for this.
A knife in the back, perhaps.
The valois way.
Please... Be sensible, louis.
Meet with elizabeth's envoy.
Build a future
controlled by you,
Not the changeable
heart of a woman.
I have to go.
I've left a parting gift
For kenna and bash,
and soon I'll be
Even less welcome
than I am now.
Hyah!
Bash, if you meant what you
said, and you'll take me
To paris, then I would
like to go soon.
Now, even.
Someone left this letter
on my desk.
It's addressed to the queen
of navarre, antoine's wife.
It's an invitation
to the tasting.
Written by you.
Um... It must have been
dropped off here by a servant,
After the queen presented it.
Why did you invite her
in the first place?
You write, "we do hope
Your recent illness will not
prevent your attendance."
What recent illness?
Who told you the queen was sick?
Why was this left on my desk?
Is it some kind
of coded message?
Is this antoine's work?
Kenna, say something!
Please stop!
Just stop!
I'm so tired of all the lies.
Of making you believe
I'm someone I'm not.
He asked me to marry him, bash.
He said he'd make me a queen.
He was lying, of course.
But I was ready to say yes.
I wanted it.
I wanted a different life.
I wanted things you
could never give me.
And never can.
Then there is no reason
for me to be here.
(door closes)
(baby cooing)
Look at that forehead.
So smooth.
Free of worry.
Ah, I envy him of that.
I do, too.
I thought you'd
want to know that I...
I took your advice.
I let mary go.
You did?
I did.
I hated it,
every moment of it.
But now, somehow I...
I feel better.
Awful, but better.
You are a kind
And selfless man.
And you were right.
As you so often are.
Now that mary is free
to move on without me...
I find that I'm free
to do the same.
Lately I've found that...
The only times that I feel truly
safe in this castle, untaxed,
Unworried and... Peaceful
As this lucky child here,
Is when I'm with you.
Francis, no.
We both still love mary.
(sighs)
And who knows?
When she finds the strength
to truly love again,
You may find you're not as
free from her as you think.
(knock at door)
Louis, come in quickly.
I got your summons.
I was worried.
Francis has had
a change of heart.
He's not going
to stand in our way.
We have to be discreet,
of course, but...
As soon as we go to scotland...
Well, there's no need to rush
Our departure now.
We can be cautious.
How cautious?
Why?
What if francis changes
his mind again?
What if this promise
of safety here is fleeting?
Francis has given this
much painful thought.
He didn't make this
decision easily.
Exactly!
What man, what king, would
give another man his wife?
Mary, we need
to get out of here.
You do realize that
even in scotland,
We would have to be discreet.
Of course I understand that.
But you would be queen
of your own nation.
You would have some
additional freedom.
Unless you're having second
thoughts of leaving at all.
We are going to scotland.
I am needed there, and
I want you at my side.
I love you.
How do you feel about francis?
You don't think this
Act of unprecedented
generosity
Is a trick somehow?
Francis has only ever
wanted to protect me.
Because he loves you.
Because he wants you back.
He's doing this to win you back.
I can hear you soften
toward him.
You and I have
made plans together.
And that hasn't changed.
But we need to trust each other.
Do we trust each other?
All right.
Of course, I trust you.
She'll be pleased to hear
what you've told me today.
A marriage alliance
like this would be
A boon to her people...
And yours.
Please send her
my warmest personal regards.
From what I've been told,
There's no queen more beautiful,
Gracious or wise than elizabeth.
Captioning sponsored by
cbs productions
Captioned by
media access group at wgbh
access.Wgbh.Org
Girl:
Oh, no.